---
layout: post
image: img/ipad_sleeve/ipad_in_sleeve_sm.jpg
index: "0x02"
title: iPad Sleve
category: Sewing
author: Tim
---
![iPad sleeve](/img/ipad_sleeve/ipad_in_sleeve.jpg)

I took the plunge and bought an iPad once the "New iPad" with retina display
came out. I appreciate well-made hardware so I tend to buy Apple stuff and
products made in Germany, but that's another story. One of my nieces had a nice
thick felt sleeve for her iPad 2 and of course I thought to myself, "I can make
one of those"! I say that a lot, just ask my wife.

![iPad sleeve again](/img/ipad_sleeve/corner_view.jpg)

I started very simply by just wrapping a length of wool/polyester felt and
stitching the sides. That was it, but it didn't feel thick enough and I was
worried about the synthetic material mix scratching the screen. I ripped out
the stitches and set out to make a lining to go inside.

![Liner](/img/ipad_sleeve/logo_and_liner.jpg)

I took a long strip of red cotton and stitched it between two layers of the
outer wool/polyester. Again I stitched the sides as before. This time the
thickness was just right at 4 layers of wool plus two layers of cotton.

![Stitching](/img/ipad_sleeve/stitching.jpg)

I used a small zigzag stitch because I wanted to really show off the red thread
through the gray wool, but that made the pocket too tight for the iPad to fit.
Out came the stitch ripper again. One more time with a straight stitch and the
fit was perfect.

![Logo](/img/ipad_sleeve/logo.jpg)

Never being quite satisfied I decided that the front needed an emblem, but to
sew an emblem on I had to break out the seam ripper one last time. I added an
applique of the three bars that make up the Weaver W. This was my first attempt
at applique, and it didn't go very well, as you can see in the picture, but it
was good enough for the moment. I used black thread, but should have used red
instead. Next time.  Finally after sewing all the layers back together again I
had my finished sleeve. Continual ripping of seams and re-sewing caused the
material to stretch to the point where the different layers of fabric didn't
line up perfectly, so after all was said and done I cut straight edges with a
rotary cutter. Again, not perfect but this was another learning project and I
wasn't expecting perfection.
